url: 'https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vinayakshanawad/cement-manufacturing-concrete-dataset'

Concrete Compressive Strength
Predicting the strength of concrete: A material used in daily construction
Cover image

Data Card

Code (8)

Discussion (0)
About Dataset
Context

Concrete is the most used material for construction in the world! There are some components that should be combined to make the concrete. These components can affect the compressive strength of the concrete. To obtain the real compressive strength of concrete (target labels in the dataset), an engineer needs to break the cylinder samples under the compression-testing machine. The failure load is divided by the cylinder's cross-section to obtain the compressive strength. Engineers use different kinds of concretes for different building purposes. For example, the strength of concrete used for residential buildings should not be lower than 2500 psi (17.2 MPa). Concrete is a material with high strength in compression, but low strength in tension. That is why engineers use reinforced concrete (usually with steel rebars) to build structures.

Content

Given are the variable name, variable type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The concrete compressive strength is the regression problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database.

Name -- Data Type -- Measurement -- Description

Cement (component 1) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Blast Furnace Slag (component 2) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Fly Ash (component 3) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Water (component 4) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Superplasticizer (component 5) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Coarse Aggregate (component 6) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Fine Aggregate (component 7) -- quantitative -- kg in a m3 mixture -- Input Variable
Age -- quantitative -- Day (1~365) -- Input Variable
Concrete compressive strength -- quantitative -- MPa -- Output Variable

Number of instances 1030
Number of Attributes 9
Attribute breakdown 8 quantitative input variables, and 1 quantitative output variable
Missing Attribute Values None

Acknowledgements

Original Owner and Donor
Prof. I-Cheng Yeh
Department of Information Management
Chung-Hua University,
Hsin Chu, Taiwan 30067, R.O.C.
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/concrete+compressive+strength

Relevant Papers:

Main

I-Cheng Yeh, "Modeling of strength of high performance concrete using artificial neural networks," Cement and Concrete Research, Vol. 28, No. 12, pp. 1797-1808 (1998).
Others

I-Cheng Yeh, "Modeling Concrete Strength with Augment-Neuron Networks," J. of Materials in Civil Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 263-268 (1998).
I-Cheng Yeh, "Design of High Performance Concrete Mixture Using Neural Networks," J. of Computing in Civil Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 36-42 (1999).
I-Cheng Yeh, "Prediction of Strength of Fly Ash and Slag Concrete By The Use of Artificial Neural Networks," Journal of the Chinese Institute of Civil and Hydraulic Engineering, Vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 659-663 (2003).
I-Cheng Yeh, "A mix Proportioning Methodology for Fly Ash and Slag Concrete Using Artificial Neural Networks," Chung Hua Journal of Science and Engineering, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 77-84 (2003).
Yeh, I-Cheng, "Analysis of strength of concrete using design of experiments and neural networks," Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering, ASCE, Vol.18, No.4, pp.597-604 (2006).
Citation Request:

NOTE: Reuse of this database is unlimited with retention of copyright notice for Prof. I-Cheng Yeh and the following published paper:

I-Cheng Yeh, "Modeling of strength of high performance concrete using artificial neural networks," Cement and Concrete Research, Vol. 28, No. 12, pp. 1797-1808 (1998).